# Part 1

## Java Interfaces

is a set of features that can be applied to various other classes.
keyword **interface**.
In the interface the absence of the access modifier on a method actually means public. And of course, abstract and, there's no method body here.
You could have methods that do have bodies but on certain conditions. And the conditions are these methods have to be marked as default or have to be private or have to be static.

## Multiple Inheritance Problem

What we're trying to do with interfaces is _solve_ a problem, which is known as a **multiple inheritance problem**. It's plausible that a given class may wish to extend different parents.
The reason behind why it is not allowed in Java is precisely what I just described, the potential conflict between two parents.
**By default, the interface methods are assumed to be abstract so you have to override them.**

## Implement Interfaces

Class can implement as many interfaces as needed.
But if the default method does cause the conflict, just treat it as any other abstract method. Override it in that particular class and, resolve the problem.

## Default, Private and Static Methods in Interfaces

**Private interface methods** - do not cause conflicts, because they are not visible outside of that interface.
**Static interface methods** - do not cause conflicts, because they are invoked via specific parent types and do not rely on the super reference..

## Interface Hierarchy

An interface can extend another interface.

## Interface Is a Type

Just like a class.



# Part 2

## Functional Interfaces

The reason it's called a functional interface is because it describes a single abstract operation-- single method. Just one.
The purpose of an interface is to describe some kind of programming feature. It could come with a number of default, static, and internal-use private methods-- private methods could be invoked, for example, from default methods of that interface-- but it always comes with some form of convention of what implementing a feature entails.

## Generics

It allows variables and methods to operate on objects of various types while providing compile-time type safety.
Since Java SE 5.

```java
public class Some<T> {
    private T value;
    public T getValue() {
        return value;
    }
    public void setValue(T value) {
        this.value = value;
    }
}
```

## Use Generics

The use of Generics helps to produce compact, type-safe code.

```java
Some<Product> some = new Some<>();
some.setValue(new Product(...));
// some.setValue("something); - compile error
Product product = some.getValue();
// DO NOT NEED MORE THIS:
// if (vallue instanceof Product) {
//     Product product = (Product)value;
// }
```

You don't need the instanceof checks, the casting of types that you had to do otherwise.
With Generics you resolve the type at compile time.



# Part 3

## Composition Pattern

To solve multiple inheritance problem.
A Class may represent a composition of features implemented by different other classes.



# Quiz

Interfaces can contain concrete methods, but only if they are ___. (Choose three) default, static, private -
Which action do Generics allow? "Resolving specific type during compilation" - OK 
What is an interface that defines a single abstract operation called? "Functional" - OK
Which statements are true? (Choose three) "A class can implement as many interfaces as required.", "A default method can be defined only in an interface." and "Interfaces help solve the multiple inheritance problem." - OK
Which statements are true? (Choose two) 
"An interface reference cannot be cast to another interface type." and "An interface reference provides access to all public methods of the class." - X
"An interface reference cannot be cast to another interface type." and "Both interface and class references can be cast to either type." - X