# Part 1

## Using Java Logging API

Allows us to write logs.
Each logger should be given a name. And there is an idea that you should name your logger after your class.

```java
public class Test {
    private static Logger logger = Logger.getLogger(Test.class.getName());
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        try {
            // ...
        } catch (Exception e) {
            logger.log(Level.ERROR, "Message", e);
        }
        logger.log(Level.INFO, "Message");
        logger.info("Message");
    }
}
```

## Guarded Logging

Concept: use guarded logging to avoid processing messages that are due to be discarded.

## Log Writing Handling

So writing something to the logger will eventually produce messages that could go to different handlers.
The level of logging can be controlled by setting it up on the root level for the entire run time, and you can also set up different logging levels for specific packages or for a particular class, maybe, so change that logger level. You can also change the logger level on a particular handler. So for example, one handler is configured to point to file. Another handler is configured to point to the console and actually could be configured with different detail levels. So they'll filter out messages that are above the threshold for the set. Each handler can be associated with a logger format, and you could use formats like XML logging or just plain text, simple logging. And, as I say, it could be associated with a particular destination.

## Logging Configuration

There's a file called logging.properties.

## Describe Java Exceptions

Exceptions reflect unexpected events that may occur within our program. And what they do is that they **interrupt normal flow** of the program.
All exceptions descend from the class _Throwable_.
We can categorize all of the exceptions into two groups:
1.**Checked Exceptions** - must be caught(past of catch) _or_ must be explicitly propagated;     (They represent genuine problems that have nothing to do with your quality of coding.)
2.**Unchecked (Runtime) Exceptions** - may be caught _and_ do not have to be explicitly propagated.     (bugs on the code)

## Create Custom Exceptions

```java
public class ProductException extends Exception {
    public ProductException() {
        super();
    }
    public ProductException(String message) {
        super(message);
    }
    public ProductException(String message, Throwable cause) {
        super(message, cause);
    }
}
```

## Throwing Exceptions

Throw will interrupt the flow of the program and will trigger the exception propagation.
If you throw the exceptions that are checked, you will have to catch them.
Don't confuse the keyword "throws" as part of the method definition, and it's a promise saying that this method can potentially produce a certain exception or certain exceptions.

```java
public void doThings() throws IOException, CustomException {
    // ...
    throw new IOException();
    throw new CustomException();
}
```



# Part 2

## Catching Exceptions

Surround _code that can produce exceptions_ with the **try** block. (and **catch** and **finally**)

```java
try {
    doThings();
} catch (NullPointerException | ArithmeticException e) {
    // more specific exception handler actions
} catch (Exception e) {
    // generic exception actions
} finally {
    // actions that will be executed regardless if exceptions occur or not
}
```

**finally** - try block throws an exception, the finally block is executed. Try block does not throw any exceptions, the finally block is executed. It's executed no matter what.
Try block must be followed by one or more catch, or by finally, or by both one or more catch and finally.

## Resource Auto-Closure

**Try-with-parameters** syntax provides auto-closure of resource.

```java
try (/*initialise autocloseable resources*/) {
    /* use resources */
} catch (Exception e) {
    // handle exceptions
} /* finally block invoking close method on every autocloseable resource is formed implicity */
```

When you write your try block and you write your catches, the finally block is automatically created for you. You don't see it. It's not visible. It's just done. It's implicitly formed.

## Suppressed Exceptions

There is, however, a small problem related to auto-closure.
So if you are doing the AutoCloseable object, and a finally block is formed for you-- it's implicitly created-- and then the close method, for whatever mysterious reason, throws you an exception, how do you know that that happened? How do you know that the closure failed, because you don't write the try catch block here, because you don't write the finally, right? It seems there is nowhere where you can put the code to actually react to the close method throwing you an exception.




# Part 3

## Java Debugger

Java Debugger allows you to place breakpoints in a code, and, well, debug it, do the step-by-step execution, and find out what's wrong with your code, maybe troubleshoot it.
Command-line debugger tool **jdb** provided with JDK.

## Validate Program Logic Using Assertions

Assertions is a very, very basic way of doing testing in your code.
**assert** - you can write and assert expression in such a code, which is any Boolean expression. And if this Boolean expression is true, then everything is fine. And if these Boolean expression yields you false, then an assertion error will be thrown.
To enable assertions: **java -ea <package>.<MainClass>** command-line option.
Make sure you just test conditions, just test conditions. Make sure you never modify anything-- you never change the data state, you never perform an action.

## Normal Program Flow with No Exceptions

```java
public void doThings() {
    try {
        a();    <-
        b();    <-
    } catch (NoSuchFileException x) {
        c();
    } catch (IOException y) {
        d();
    } finally {
        e();    <-
    }
    f();    <-
}
public void a() throws IOException {
    if (false) {
        throw new IOException();
    }
}
```

```java
public void doThings() {
    try {
        a();    <-
        b();
    } catch (NoSuchFileException x) {
        c();
    } catch (IOException y) {
        d();
    } finally {
        e();    <-
    }
    f();
}
public void a() throws IOException {
    if (true) {
        throw new NullPointerException();   //Null pointer exception is a runtime exception, so it doesn't need to be listed explicitly in a throws clause. It will be propagated to the calling method anyway.
    }
    throw new IOException();
}
```

```java
public void doThings() {
    try {
        a();    <-
        b();
    } catch (NoSuchFileException x) {
        c();    <-
    } catch (IOException y) {
        d();
    } finally {
        e();    <-
    }
    f();    ? // Yes, because the exception has been successfully caught, the rest of the method is also executed.
}
public void a() throws IOException {
    if (true) {
        throw new NoSuchFileException();
    }
}
```

```java
public void doThings() {
    try {
        a();    <-
        b();
    } catch (NoSuchFileException x) {
        c();
    } catch (Exception y) {
        d();    <-
        return;
    } finally {
        e();    <-
    }
    f();
}
public void a() throws IOException {
    if (true) {
        throw new IOException();
    }
}
```



# Quiz

The most commonly used logging method takes at least two parameters. Which parameters are they?
Level and message <----- OK

Which statement is true about checked exceptions?
The must be caught or must be explicitly propagated. <----- OK

What happens when an exception is raised?
Normal program flow is terminated. <----- OK

Which statement is true about the Java Logging API?
You can apply different log levels to different log targets. <----- OK

What are the common uses of custom exceptions? (Choose two)
Providing an error message <----- OK
Providing constructors that utilize superclass constructor abilities <----- OK