# Part 1

## Java Database Connectivity

JDBC API provides us with an interface to interact with databases. On one side of the connection, JDBC driver will manage the connectivity with a database using native database protocol, whatever it is. It depends on which database you're connecting to.
On the other side, the JDBC driver gives you a _standard interface_ through which you interact with the driver. That standard interface is described by a **Java SQL package**. The Java SQL package contains a list of interfaces that describe how you work with whatever database. **Driver is** a set of classes that basically implements these interfaces.
So the job of the _driver_ is to basically **provide database-specific native protocol implementation**, but you won't really need to know that, because your code will be written against the interface's written part of the Java SQL package.

```bash
jdbc:<provider>:<driver_type>:<connection_details>
```

## JDBC API Structure

**Driver Manager** - you can actually obtain your database connection.
**Connection** you can obtain statements. You can create and prepare statements.
**Statement** interface represents a basic SQL statement (not advisable).
**Prepared Statements** pretty much for everything else.
**Callable Statements** are used to invoke stored procedures or functions.
**ResultSet** which is a representation of a set of records that is a result of your query.
All of these objects implement AutoCloseable interface.

If you write in your own finally block, and _you're manually_ closing that-- so you're calling results that close, statement close, connection close-- if you do that, you must **close results at first, statement second, and connection third**. You mustn't do it the other way around.

## Manage Database Connections

```java
String url = "jdbc:derby:localhost:1527:productDB";
// String url = "jdbc:oracle:thin:@localhost:1527:orcl";
String username = "pm";
String password = "welcome";
Connection connection = DriverManager.getConnectioon(url, username, password);
/* use conneciton to execute SQL statements */
```

## Create and Execute Basic SQL Statements

java.sql.Statement
With statement, for all other actions except select, you use method **executeUpdate** (for a select = executeQuery).

```java
Connection connection = DriverManager.getConnection(...);
String productQuery = "select name from products";
String productUpdate = "update products set blablabla = "+value+" where id = "+id;
int rows = statement.executeUpdate(productUpdate);
boolean isQuery = statement.execute(productQuery);
```

However, you're highly recommended to use prepared statement instead.

## Create and Execute Prepared SQL Statements

java.sql.PreparedStatement
Prepared statement is using parameters as substitution parameters.
Before you execute the statement, you supply parameters. There are two styles in which you can do it. There is one style which is setObject, parameter position, variable you want to put into that parameter, what value do you want to put in, and the parameter type. Notice that parameter positions are **indexed from one**, not from zero.

```java
Connection connection = DriverManager.getConnection(...);
String productUpdate = "update products set blablabla = ? where id = ?";
PreparedStatement updatePrice = connection.preparedStatement(productUpdate);
updatePrice.setObject(1, price, Types.NUMERIC);
updatePrice.setObject(2, id, Types.INTEGER);
int rows = updatePrice.executeUpdate();
```

The substitution parameters used by prepared or callable statements avoid the problem, because the statement is precompiled beforehand and a value will not be treated as another SQL statement. So there you go. It actually safer.

## Create and Execute Callable SQL Statements

java.sql.CallableStatement

```java
Connection connection = DriverManager.getConnection(...);
String functionCall = "? = { call some_function(?) }";
CallableStatement some = connection.preparedCall(functionCall);
some.registerOutParameter(1, Types.VARCHAR);
some.setDate(2, date);
some.execute();
```

## Process Query Results

java.sql.ResultSet
Then you can step through the resultSet using method **next()**, which does two things. It checks if the next record actually exists.

```java
ResultSet results = findProduct.executeQuery();
while (results.next()) {
    int id = results.getInt(1);
    String name = results.getObject("name",String.class);
}
```

## Control Transactions

_By default_, is in the **AutoCommit mode**.

```java
try (Connection connection =driverManager.getConnection(...)) {
    conneciton.setAutoCommit(false);    //  switch auto-commit mode off
    /* execute SQL statements */
    Savepoint sp1 = connection.setSavepoint();  // create savepoints
    /* execute SQL statements */
    connection.rollback(sp1);           //  rollback to savepoint
    connection.commit();                // commit transaction
} catch (SQLException e) {
    connection.rollback();              // rollback transaction
}
```

## Discover Metadata

**DatabaseMetaData** object contains comprehensive informtaion about the database as a whole, such as database provider, SQL capabilities, supported features.
**ResultSetMetaData** object contains information about types and properties of the columns in a ResultSet object.

## Customize ResultSet

**ResultSetType** - 1.direction of the result set traversal; 2. reflection of changes made to the underlying data source while this result set remains open.
**ResultSetConcurrency** - updatability or the result set.
**ResultSetHoldability** - retention or closure of a result set when transaction is committed.
