# Part 1

## Arrays

Array is a fixed-length collection of elements of the same type-- whatever is the type-- indexed by int.

```java
int[] primes;
int primes2[];
primes = int[4];
```

The size is essentially fixed. You can't really change it. So you're allocating memory in a heap.

## Combined Declaration, Creation and Initialization of Arrays

```java
int[] primes = {2,3,5};
```

## Multidimensional Arrays

```java
int[][] matrix = {{4,1}, {2,0,5}};
```

## Copying Array Content

You cannot resize the array, what you can do is you can copy the content from one array to another, and that other array could be of a different size.
System.arraycopy
Arrays.copyOf or Arrays.copyOfRange

## Loops

Loop allows us to create iterative execution to write some code that you want to execute over and over and over again.

```java
int i = 0;
while (i < 10) { i++ }
```

```java
int i = 0;
do { i++ } while (i < 10)
```

```java
for (int i = 0; i < 10; i++) {}
```



# Part 2

## Processing Arrays by Using Loops

values is my array:

```java
for (int i = 0; i < values.length; i++) {}
```

```java
for (int value : values) {}
```

= forEach

## Complex for loops

```java
for (int i = 0; i < values.length; sum += i++) {}
```

```java
for (int i = 0, j = 2; !(i == 3 || j == -1); i++, j--) {} // I'm traversing a matrix-- a two-dimensional array-- diagonally
```

## Embedded Loops

```java
for (int x = 0; x < game.length; x++) {
    int y = 0;
    while (y < game[x].length) {
        y++;
    }
}
```

```java
for (char[] row : game) { // forEach
    for (char value : row) {}
}
```

## Break and Continue

**break** can be used in a loop for precisely the same reason-- break out of the loop. Terminate this iterative processing.
**continue** works similar to the break, but a continue statement jumps the cycle. It doesn't terminate the entire processing of the iterator. It just jumps to the next cycle in a loop.
**continue <label>** skips the labeled loop cycle:

```java
outerLoopLabel:
for (char[] row : game) {
    for (char value : row) {
        if (condition === true) { continue outerLoopLabel; }
        if (condition2 === true) { break outerLoopLabel; }
    }
}
```



# Quiz

Examine the following code:
String[] names = {"Mary","Jane","Ann","Tom"}; 
Arrays.sort(names);
int x = Arrays.binarySearch(names,"Ann");
System.out.println(x);
What is the value of x?
0 - OK

When processing an array in a loop, use array ____ to determine the boundary for the termination condition: length - OK

When breaking out of loops and skipping loop cycles, ____ skips the current loop and ____ terminates the current loop. continue, break - OK

Examine the following code:
public class Compare implements Comparator<String>{
  public int compare(String s1, String s2) {
    return s2.length() - s1.length();
  }
}
String[] names = {"Mary","Jane","Elizabeth","Jo"};
Arrays.sort(names, new Compare());
for (String name: names) {
  System.out.println(name);
}
What will be the output?
Elizabeth Mary Jane Jo - OK

Which statements are true about an array? (Choose four)
Is an object itself
After an array is created, its length cannot be changed.
An array of primitive values is filled with 0 values (false values if it is of boolean type).
It is a fixed-length collection of elements of the same type indexed by int.
- OK