# Part 1

What must you use to apply object-oriented capabilities to primitives?
wrapper classes

## String initialization

Java.lang.String class represents a sequence of characters -> it's a class
JVM can optimize memory allocated to store String objects by maintaining **a single copy of each String literal** in the String Pool memory area, **regardless of how many variables reference this copy** (This process is called _interning_).

## String Operations

Because String objects are immutable!
Any attempt to modify it, every time you call some operation and you say, concatenate, substring, whatever, so any attempt to change it will basically result in the creation of another String.

## String Indexing

String contains a sequence character **indexed by integer** (starts from 0).

## StringBuilder

Now, String, as you probably observed already, is convenient. It has some basic text manipulation operations, but it's immutable. So all of these different actions, like substring, for example, or trim, or lowercase, uppercase, they always produce a new String, which may not be very efficient if you need to handle a significant volume of text with lots of different manipulations.
If you need to manipulate, count, and add, and remove characters, and reposition stuff, and things like that, String will keep creating new String objects for you upon every attempt to update it, to change it in any way, because it's immutable. It's read-only. So instead, because it's not particularly optimal flooding your memory with all these String objects, you may consider that for complex text manipulation cases, you probably would like to use a class that is not immutable. And the example of that is StringBuilder.
Daefault capacity = 16, but auto-expands.




# Part 2

## Wrapper Classes for Primitives

So for every primitive, there's an equivalent kind of object-oriented way of present in that primitive value. So these are wrapper classes.

```java
int a = 42;
Integer b = Integer.valueOf(a);
int c = b.intValue();
b = a; // auto-boxing
c = b; // auto-unboxing
```

## Representing Numbers Using _BigDecimal_ Class

In addition to these wrapper classes, we have more specialized versions of-- ways of representing numbers in Java, classes BigDecimal and BigInteger. The BigDecimal and BigInteger, the interesting thing about them, like BigDecimal, for example, is that actually treats the number as decimal, specifically. Unlike basic primitives that does not necessarily imply that you're using decimal math, BigDecimal does imply you're using decimal math and allows you to create numbers with arbitrary precision.

## Method Chaining

```java
String s1 = "Hello";
String s2 = s1.concat("World").substring(3,6); // example
```

This is a good way of doing things.

## Local Date and Time

It's a API.
LoacalDate, LocalTime and LocalDateTime

## More Local Date and Time Operations

plusXXX(), minusXXX() and withXXX()
Notice this chained notation. So for example, I have a current date, which is now, and I'm saying, change the minute to 14. It doesn't matter what the current minute is. Just forget it. It will be 14. Or with day of month, doesn't matter what date is it today, just set it to be 3rd of whatever month. And then say, and add 12 hours to that, plus 12 hours. So you have these plus, minus, and with methods that allow you to manipulate with date and time values.
However, just like with a class String, just like with a class BigDecimal, LocalDate, LocalTime, LocalDateTime are immutable.
getXXX()
isBefore() and isAfter() check if a date or time is before/after another.

## Instants, Durations and Periods

That expresses the amount of time.
So **duration** can express the amount of time in _nanoseconds_ and **period** can express the amount of time in units such as _days or years_.
Is immutable.




# Part 3

## Zoned Date and Time

you first need to find out which time zone you need to use, and that's done with ZoneId. ZoneId can be specified in different ways. You can use ZoneIds as UTC offsets, you can use ZoneIds as GMT offset, you can do the ZoneIds by name, you can do the ZoneIds by region and city, whichever way.
withZoneSameInstant() - This method answers me the question, what time and date would that particular time in London, which is what I've just constructed, what that would be in LA? So it calculates that and actually takes into account things like calendars, daylight saving times, international time, date boundaries, and all that.

## Represent Languages and Countries

java.util.Locale

## Format and Parse Muneric Values

including primitives, wrapper classes and BigDecimal objects.
java.text.NumberFormat

## Format and Parse Date and Time values

java.time.format.DateTimeFormatter

## Localize Resources

java.util.ResourceBundle
Resource bundle can be represented as plain text file with the extension **.properties**.

## Format MEssage Patterns

java.text.MessageFormat