# Part 1:

1Z0-819-J: Java SE 11 Developer - Java SE Developer OCP
**Real Exam Format and Information**
Exam Name Oracle Certified Professional: Java SE 11 Developer
Exam Code 1Z0-819
Exam Duration 90 Minutes
Exam Type Multiple Choice
Number of Questions 50
Passing Score 68%
Validated Against This exam has been validated against Java 11


_Appendices A, B, C and D are actually in the scope of certification exam._

## So what is Java?

It's a general purpose programming language. It's syntactically very similar to C or C++. It has a lot of features with these two languages in common.
Creted at 1995.
Java is **object-oriented** language.
**Platform-Independent** - that was the design goal of the Java language.
Java SE (Standard Edition) = like the **core** language itself.

## How Java works?

Java source code is written as plain text .java files.
Compiled by javac into **byte-code** (bynare-code) .class files for JVM.
So the job of Java Virtual Machine is to provide this environment which allows the same compiled code to be translated differently to whichever current target platform you want to run that code on, and therefore, make Java program portable across all these different platforms. ... But there's something else Java Virtual Machine does. It organizes the entire memory management of the program, the entire environment which hosts your code. ... And I suppose the great invention about Java was the idea of taking that Java Virtual Machine and not just running it as a standalone program on your computer, but actually embedding it into other programs. ... So you have Java now in various devices, and you've got it in databases-- everywhere pretty much. And that is possible because of the way Java Virtual Machine isolates your code from the environment and environment from the code.



# Part 2: Concepts of object-oriented approach

## How Java code is organized?

The unit of coding in Java is a **class**.
Class = represents a concept or a thing which you want to have in your program. You want to reflect the behaviors of that real-world thing in your code. Each class defines what kind of information (**attributes**) it can store, what kind of behaviors (**operations**) containing program logic (**algorithms**) it is capable of.

## What's an object?

An object is a specific **instance** or example of a class.
A class as, once again, a type of something and an object as a specific value or an instance or example of that something.

## Inheritance

Is an idea that you could have classes that are very generic and classes that are quite specific.
The real keyword there is **"extends"**.
Parent types are called superclasses. Subtypes are called subclasses.
This idea comes from a notion of a code re-usability.

## JDK - Java Development Kit

Provides hundreds of classes for various programming purposes.
API - Application Programming Interface = collectons of classes that are designed to serve a common purpose.

## Java Naming Conventions

Java is case-sensitive.
Package name is a reverse of your company domain name, plus the naming system adopted within your company (com.oracle.whatever.animals).
Class name should be a noun, in mixed case with the first letter os each word capitalized (ShepherdDog).
Variable name should be in mixed case starting with a lowercase letter; further words start with capital letters (shepherDog). Not start with 0-9, _ or $. (invalid name 7Full8metal)
Constant name is typically written in uppercase with underscore symbols between words (MIN_SIZE).
Method name should be a verb, in mixed case starting with a lowercase letter; further words start with capital letters (giveMePaw).



# Part 3:

## Java Basic Syntax Rules

All Java statements must be terminated with the ';' symbol.
Code blocks must be enclosed with {} symbols.
Indentation is purely for readability but are syntactically irrelevant.
Clas msut be saved into a file with the same name as the class and extension .java.
Classes are grouped into packages.
Package and class name must form a unique combination.
You put it in a folder where subfolders match your package segments.

## Access Classes Across Packages

Use the import statement to **import specific classes** or the **entire package content**.
Import only exist in a source code. The compiled code always uses a full prefix of the package and class.
If you import a package that you're not actually using-- classes that you're not actually using-- will have no effect on compiled code whatsoever, because it will be just removed.

## Use Access Modifiers

Describe the visibility of classes, variables and methods.
**public** visible to any other;
**protected** visible to classes that are in the same package or to subclasses
**<default>** visible only to classes in the same package
**private** visible only within the same class

## Create Main Application Class

The **main** method is the entry point into your application.
The method name must be called **main**.
It must be **public** - invoke this method from outside.
It must be **static** - such methods ca be invoked without crating an instance of this class.
It must be **void** - it does not return a value.
It must accept **array of String objects** as the only parameter.

## Compile Java Program

Compile classes with the **javac** Java compiler.

```bash
javac -cp /project/classes -d /project/classes /project/sources/Whatever.java
```

-cp = points to **locations of other classes** that may be required to compile your code.
-d = points to a **path to store compilation result** (the compiler creates _package subfolders_ with _compiled classe files_ in this path, ex: /project/classes/Whatever.class).

## Execute Java Program

Execute program using **java** executable JVM

```bash
java -cp /project/classes Whatever
```

-cp = points to **folders where your classes are located**.
Provide a **space separated list of parameters** after the class name.

Since Java 11, it's also possible to run **single-file source code** as if it's a compiled class (java /project/sources/Whatever.java)

## Comments and Documentation

```bash
// single-line comment

/*
  multi-line comment
*/

/**
*   The {@code Whatever} class
*   bla bla bla
*   @version 1.0
*   @author moi
*/
```

It extracts these comments out of your sources and actually generates HTML documentation for you (javadoc).

## Practice

Verify jdk version: java -version