# Part 1

## Security Threats

These could be **Denial of Service Attacks (DoS)** caused by situations when an attacker tries to overwhelm your application by utilizing lots of resources, basically, like bombard you with connections and these sort of things;
**Sensitive data leaks** where maybe the application lacks appropriate level of encryption or information reduction;
**Code corruption** if your application isn't careful about encapsulation or immutability, which allows you to sort of corrupt information;
And **Code injections** where lack of the input validation may cause an attempt to force through kind of regular parameterization of the application-- force through that injections of an actual executable code that can then be exploiting and attacking your system.

## Denial of Service (DoS) Attack

You may have a situation when somebody is trying to invoke your application and utilize the resources of the application without actually trying to gain any particular tangible functionality out of it.
Unchecked and unrestricted resource utilizations can be exploited.
Symptoms:
1.Legitimate users are unable to accessresources and services.
2.There is excessive resource consumption. No resources remain to do legitimate work.
Causes:
1.A file or code construct grows too large;
2.A service or connection is overwhelmed with bogus requests.
Prevention:
1.Use permissions to restrict access to code that consumes vulnerable resources;
2.Validate all application inputs;
3.Release resources in all cases;
4.Monitor excessive resource consumption disproportionate to that used to request a service.

## Define Security Policies

Security policies can be used to restrict accesss to code and resources.
Java security descriptor file is used to configure: general security settings; references to certificate keystore files; references to security policies files.

```java
//  ${java.home}/conf/security/java.security
policy.url.1=file:${java.home}/conf/security/java.policy
policy.url.2=file:$/somepath/java.policy
```

Java security policy descriptor file configures security permissions: code from specific codebase (location of Java code, which could be a flolder or URL); code signed with specific digital signatures; access to classes and resources.

```java
//  java.policy
grant codeBase "file:/some.jar" signedBy "Jane, John" {
    permission java.net.SocketPermission "localhost:7777", "listen";
    permission java.io.FilePermission "/someFile", "read, write";
}
```

## Control Access Using Permissions

java.security.Permission
Anywhere in your code, you could say, should that code be allowed to do this or the other action? So the allowance is what you describe in the policy file. That's what you said in the policy.
Check permissions before performing an action that accesses resources.
Permissions are set using java.policy files.
If access is denied = AccessControlException.

## Execute Privileged Code

**doPrivileged** method of the access controller allows you to specify privilege actions.
**PrivilegedAction** you describe what you want to do in it, method run, you may return value as a result of executing privileged action. And inside here, you write in code that requires permissions, basically. This is kind of privilege code.

## Secure Filesystem and IO Operations

So when you use a relative path, when your path does not start from the root of the file system, the new path is constructed from whichever current location. By planting things like links in a file system, you can be diverted to a different part of the file system. So this is known as **direct route reversal attack**.
To prevent it:
1.While you are faced with a relative path you can normalize it, turn it into the absolute path, so remove the redundant elements;
2.You can convert it to real path, i.e. validate, if it actually physically exists.

In terms of **denial of service attacks** you need to consider that there might be an attempt to make a program process too much data. They may take too long. So if somebody gives you a file of excessive size, maybe worth verifying what is the size of the file before you start reading or writing it, yeah? Maybe you want to detect if your IO operation takes too long, so excessive use.

When you **serializing and deserializing**, remember that deserialization essentially bypasses the entire normal validation of data. You are loading data from external place directly into your heap memory. Is that dangerous? Oh, yes. Oh, yes it is, because you're bypassing normal set methods, you're bypassing the constructor. So if that external file, for example file-- you were loading the data from has been corrupted, or somebody specifically constructed a particular data state there, which theoretically an attacker can do, when you deserialize the data, it goes directly into your heap, and that could be rather dangerous.




# Part 2

## Best Practices for Protecting your Code

**Enforce encapsulation** Consider using _Java Platform Module System_, because that could be used to specifically forbid reflection. So that you cannot dynamically introspect objects and bypass encapsulation. And also, when you _encapsulate data_, use restrictive permissions as restrictive as possible. So consider that all of your variables need to be private and methods not necessarily need to be public. Maybe some methods are to have only package visibility or be protected.

Also, make your **objects as immutable as possible**. Again, that prevents a whole host of problems related to possible memory corruptions. Because if the memories are mutable, well, then you can't corrupt it, because you can't write to it. You can always _clone_ the object and create a replica if you need any changes. So you can modify something as another object. But if you retain the original object in an intact state, well, obviously then it can't be corrupted.

If your class is not supposed to be extended, just make sure it's final, and so is methods. Non-final, non-private classes and methods can be maliciously overridden by the attacker.

Protect byte-code against tampering and dangerous behaviors.

## Erroneous Value Guards

Guard against overflowed number space.
Guard against bad floating point values.
Guard against _null_ references.

## Protect Sensitive Data (Part 1)

You can scramble your data using a _MessageDigest_ approach. So this is the code example that just takes, for example, I don't know, a credit card number or something and just scrambles that value. Consider also cleaning the memory as soon as possible. So dereferencing objects that you don't need, especially if they contain sensitive data.

Do not log the sensitive information.

## Protect Sensitive Data (Part 2)

Encrypt and Decrypt values: javax.crypto

```java
String text = "Value that requires encryption";
SecretKey key = KeyGenerator.getInstance("AES").generateKet();
Cipher cipher = Cipher.getInstance("AES/GCM/NoPadding");
cipher.init(Cipher.ENCRYPT_MODE, key);
byte[] value = text.getBytes();
byte[] encryptedValue = cipher.doFinal(value);
// ...
GCMParameterSpec ps = cipher.getParameters().getParametersSpec(GCMParameterSpec.class;
cipher.init(Cipher.DECRYPT_MODE, key, ps;
byte[] decryptedValue = cipher.doFinal(encryptedValue);
```

## Prevent SQL Injections

Basic **Statement** object use of parameter concatenation presents a risk of SQL injections.
**PreparedStatements** avoid the problem. Or on a basic statement, there is another method. It's called **enquoteLiteral**, and it allows you to sanitize the parameter value, so preventing the injection. Consider using Java persistence API and BeanValidations APIs that can also do it for you.

## Prevent JavaScript Injections

I know the JavaScript has nothing to do with Java. Yeah, it's a completely different programming language. By quite often, JavaScript programs that run within maybe Klein browser can interact with server side Java programs. And you don't want a JavaScript program to go haywire, because that's typically what represents your server side Java within a client tier.
So it's recommended to sanitize parameters.
And there is an open source library called **OWASP**. It contains code that allows you to look at the parameter and sanitize it to prevent any code injections, to basically reject them, to cast them aside, saying, well, these are not supposed to be the parameter value.

## Prevent XML Injections

```xml
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE  some [
    <!ENTITY x "&y;">
    <!ENTITY y "&x;">
]>
<some>&x;</some>
```

You just created an indefinite loop that will drive an XML parser up the wall, because it will just try to make sense out of these two entities for eternity. One includes the other, the other includes the one.

To prevent that from happening, there's a feature in the XML parser in Java, which is called Secure Processing. Consider enabling the feature, and again, some open source libraries, such as OWASP, can address that as well through the parameter sanitization. So they validate your parameter values basically.