# Part 1

Java is an object-oriented language, so obviously we produce classes. And we create instances of these, and these instances, they would reflect the actual sort of business data, and they will reflect business objects that interact with the program, invoke methods upon each other.

## UML: Intro

Let's start with the approach to how you decide which classes you need in the first place and what this class is supposed to be doing. That's done through modeling of the business problem at hand, what it is that you need to design, what kind of code you need to design, and exactly how.
Unified Modeling Language

## Designing Classes

```java
package <package_name>;
import <package_name>.<OtherClassName>;
<access_modifier> class <ClassName> {
    // variables and methods
}
```

## Creating Objects

Java objects are instances of classes.

## Define Instance Variables

Uninitialized **primitives** are defaulted to _0_, except boolean = false.
Uninitialized **object** references are defaulted to _null_.

## Define Instance Methods

It's considered to be a good design practice to make your variables generally private and methods public.



# Part 2

## Local Variables and Recursive Object Reference

Variables declared inside methods = local variables.
The **local variable** can "shadow" the _instance variable_ if their names coincide.
this - recursive reference to current object (to refer to an instance).

## Local Variable Type Inference

Java is a strong-type programming language = everything has the thype in a compiled code.
There are cases qhen Java compiler ca **guess** what a variable type is for you.
This feature is limited to: - local variables with initializers; - indexes in for loops; - and for variables used for indexes and traditional for loops.

```java
public void some(int param) {
    var value1 = "Hello";  // infers String
    var value2 = param;    // infers int
}
```
Probabily, readability problem!

## Define Constants

The keyword **final** is used to mark a variable as a constant.
You don't have to initialize final variables immediately, but once it's initialized, it cannot be changed.

## Static Context

**Static** describes variables and methods that do not belong to any particular instance, but are actually shared between all instances of that class.
You will place it in memory once and **share it between all** instances of that type.

## Accessing Static Context

```java
public class Product {
    private static Period defaultExpiryPeriod;
    static {
        defaultExpiryPeriod = Period.ofDay(3);
    }
    // setter and getter
}
```

```java
public class Shop {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        Product.setExpiryPeriod(4);
        Product p1 = new Product();
        p1.setExpiryPeriod(2);
    }
}
```

## Combining Static and Final

It provides a simple way of defining globally visible constants.

## NetBeans IDE: intro

NetBeans is an Integrated Development Environment, which is open source. Currently it belongs to Apache Foundation. Previously, originally, there was a product manufactured by Sun Microsystems, and then by Oracle, and then eventually was donated to the Apache Foundation.



# Practice 4

OPen properties of the project and Build > Documenting - "HTML 5", @author and @version
In Additional Javadoc options:
-link https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/ -J-Dhttps.proxyHost=ges-proxy-oci  -J-Dhttps.proxyPort=3128

OPen properties of the project and Application > License Headers
In Use global license - General Public License 3.0

Run > Generate Javadoc