# Part 1

## Java Concurrency Concepts

Thread in a Java program is an execution path. It may involve a series of different method calls, and you carry out whatever business logic you need to carry out within a given thread.
Your main method, technically speaking, well, that's just a thread. But then you can start all the threads from within method main-- launch other threads if you need to. Each thread can be an object that basically is an implementation of a runnable interface.

```java
public class Test {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        Lateral la = new Lateral();
        new Thread(la).start();
        new Thread(la).start();
        new Thread(la).start();
        new Thread(la).start();
        // ...
    }
}
public class Lateral implements Runnable {
    public void run() {
        // Thread actions
    }
}
```

## Implement Threads

Common practice:

```java
//  Create class that implements Runnable
public class Lateral implements Runnable {
    public void run() {}
}
//  Pass Runnable object to Thread constructor
Thread t = new Thread(new Lateral);
//  Schedule thread to run
t.start();
```

However, thread class itself actually happens to already implement runnable interface.

Good for small amount of actions:

```java
//  Implement Runnable using a Lambda Expression
Runnable r = () -> { /* ... */ };
//  Pass Runnable object to Thread constructor
Thread t = new Thread(r);
//  Schedule thread to run
t.start();
```

## Thread Life Cycle

The **possible states** in which the thread can be (Thread.State):
New - thread has not yet started;
Runnable - thread is executing;
Blocked - thread is blocked, waiting for a monitor lock to be released;
Waiting - thread is waiting as long it takes for another thread's signal;
Timed_Wating - thread is waiting for a specified period of time;
Terminated - thread has exited.

So **new** could go to **runnable**, **runnable** can go to any other state. Any other state can return back to **runnable**-- well, except terminated of course, because when you terminate the thread, that's it. You're not running anymore. So runnable is like a key state of a thread, which basically means it's currently doing stuff.
You call the _start method_, and that puts the thread into the runnable ball state. So from new to runnable. That will happen after you invoke the start.
If you started a certain thread, you cannot start it again. So you cannot go from runnable to runnable again.

## Interrupt Thread

```java
Runnable r = () -> {
    Thread ct = Thread.currentThread(); //locate current Thread object
    while (!ct.isInterrupted()) {   //check interrupt signal when running
        //perform Thread actions
        try {
            Thread.sleep(1000); //enter timed waiting state for 100 milliseconds
        } catch (InterrupotedException ex) {
            //perform interrupted when waiting actions
            return;
        }
    }
};  //getting to the end of the run method terminates the Thread
Thread t = new Thread(r);
t.start();
t.interrupt();  //when Thread is in the running state it is not forced to check this signal
```

## Block Thread

Now you can block the thread. First, you need to select a **monitor** object.
A monitor object, think about it as kind of a traffic light. So your thread goes to the monitor object and turns it red. Literally, your thread itself turns its own traffic light on.

```java
public class Some {
    public void synchronized a() {}
    public static void synchronized b() {}
    public void c() {}
}
Runnable r = () -> {
    s.a();
    Some.b();
    synchronized (s) {
        s.c();
    }
};
new Thread(r).start();
new Thread(r).start();
```

The reaction to blocking is pretty simple. If two or more threads approach the part of the algorithm that is synchronized against the particular monitor, if these threads are actually sharing that monitor-- in other words, if they are on that class or if they're sharing that object-- then only one thread will be allowed to enter the synchronized block. Whichever one got there first. And then the next thread that got to that synchronized block will have to wait-- will be blocked waiting for the previous thread to complete execution of a synchronized block before it can proceed. Once the thread exits, the first Thread exits the synchronized block-- completes the synchronized method-- that would signal to any other thread that's currently blocked against that same monitor that it can proceed.




# Part 2

## Make Thread Wait Until Notified

This could be achieved using **method wait**, which allows you to suspend your thread, potentially indefinitely, until it is awakened by another thread.
Methods **notify** and **notifyAll** will cause this thread, or multiple threads that are waiting against a given monitor to wake up and transit from their waiting or time waiting states.

## Common Thread Properties

So when you launch a thread, by default, it's considered to be **user thread**. And the rules go like this, if at least one user thread is still running, then the overall Java virtual machine must not exit. So your method main is a user thread, whilst the method main is running, your Java virtual machine is still running.
So **setDaemon** basically means you're telling Java virtual machine, don't wait for this one, if you need to exit, exit. If all other user threads came to completion, that's it, you may terminate.

```java
Runnable r = () -> { /* do work */ };
Thread t = new Thread(r, "My Thread");  //custom name
t.setDeamon(true);
t.start();
long id = t.getId();    //unique id
if (t.isDaemon()) {
    /*it will auto-terminate once all user threads have terminated */
}
t.setPriority();    //assigne a priority
try {
    t.join();   //wait for another thread to terminate
} catch (InterrupotedException ex) {}
```

A priority is a construct which allows you to attempt to control the size of the time slice given to a thread on a CPU. So the thread with a higher priority, presumably, will get more CPU time than a thread with lower priority.

## Create Executor Service Objects

java.util.concurrent.Executors
What these executors do, they organize threads for you so you don't need to write this low level code that attempts to start, pause, and control threads, and pass execution from one to another. Executors automate that.

ExecutorService objects:
**Fixed thread pool** this one allows you to define a pool of threads and reuse them.
**Work stealing thread pool** It maintains the pool with a given level of parallelism. The idea is that you are saying, I would like certain level of parallelism to be achieved. I'll give you some tasks to perform, and if one task finishes earlier then please take the resources that that task was using, like that particular CPU core, and reassign it to be used by another task, right.
**Single thread executor** just create one thread.
**Cached thread pool** allows you to create new threads as needed, or reuse existing threads.
**Scheduled thread pool** allows you to execute your tasks with delay, or periodically, or both, actually.
**Single thread scheduled executor** and that's doing the same thing, but just for one thread.
**Unconfigurable Executor Service** allows you to take any other one of the previously defined executors, pools and freeze its configuration.

```java
Runnable task = () -> {};
ScheduledExecutorService ses = Executors.newScheduledThreadPool();
ses.scheduleAtFixedRate(task, 10, 5, TimeUnit.SECONDS);
ExecutorService es = Executors.unconfigurableExecutorService(ses);
```

## Implementing Executor Service Tasks

ExecutorService supports two types of task implementations:
**Runnable object** - implementing _public void run();_ method of _Runnable_ interface and Launched using **execute** or **submit** methods.
**Callable objects** -
Implementing _public <T> call() throws Exception;_ method of _Callable_ interface;
Launched using **submit**;
Returned value is wrapped into the **Future** object, which is returnde immediately;
Method **get** blocks invoking thread until timeout or when the value within the **Future** object becomes available.

So there is an interesting trick you can play. The value returned by the call method is wrapped up in the object called **future**. The way it works is that when you submit the callable object to the executor, so you tell an executor, go and execute that callable, right. Submit method returns you the future object immediately. That thread hasn't produced any response yet. It did not return anything from the call method. It probably hasn't even been launched yet. You tell it to submit and then it has to go and find the time and a CPU to actually execute logic, and then it will start execution. But you get in this future object immediately, before any of the actual execution happens. And there is nothing inside that future object at that stage, it's empty.




# Part 3

## Locking Problems

You're not embracing the stochastic order in which threads are executed. You have to be aware that every time you try to do it, you're risking running into one of these typical problems.
**Starvation** - thread is waiting for a resource blocked by another busy thread.
**Livelock** - threads form an indefinite loop, expecting confirmation of completioon from each other.
**Deadlock** - two or more threads are blocked forever, waiting for each other. Two or more monitor in reverse order.

## Writing Thread-Safe Code

Stack values such as **local variables and method arguments are thread-safe**.
Each thread operates with its own stack.
No other thread ca see this portion of memory.
_Immutable objects in a shared heap memory are thread-safe_ because they cannot be changed at all.
It's only when you try to write into the heap memory, that's when you get a problem. That's when the order of execution becomes important.

## Ensure Consistent Access to Shared Data

Disable compiler optimization that is caching the shared value locally within a thread.
Keyword **volatile** instructs Java compiler:
1.Not to cache the variable value locally;
2.Always read it from the main memory;
3.Applies all changes to the main memory that occurred in a thread before the update of the volatile variable.




# Part 4

## Non-Blocking Atomic Actions

What's an atomic action? Well, an atomic action is an action that you can perform within a single CPU cycle without being interrupted. So something you could do without being interrupted.
The problem is that most of the program actions are not actually guaranteed to be atomic.
They're called atomic. AtomicBoolean, AtomicInteger, AtomicLong, AtomicReference: they give you methods that allow you to perform modifications of values.
They guarantee that no other thread will see your data halfway through the modification.
Action is atomic if it is guaranteed to be performed by a thread without an interruption.

## Alternative Locking Mechanisms

java.util.concurrent.locks
Locking API provides more flexible programmatic concurrency control mechanisms.
Allows actions to be performed on an object, without interference from other threads.



# Quiz

Which statement is true about threads?
Two concurrent threads can enter the same synchronized block simultaneously.
A high-priority thread will complete its task earlier than a low-priority thread.
You can always force a thread to terminate.
The order in which threads terminate is indeterminate. <----- OK

When you catch the InterruptedException, into which state does it put the thread?
TERMINATED <----- X
INTERRUPTED <----- X
RUNNABLE <----- OK

What is the state of two threads waiting on each other in a synchronized block called?
Deadlock <----- OK

Which are valid thread state transitions? (Choose two)
RUNNABLE to BLOCKED
NEW to RUNNABLE
<----- OK

Which are valid mechanisms to implement threads? (Choose two)
Create a class to extend Runnable.
Create a class that implements Thread.
<----- X
Schedule a thread to run.
Instantiate a Runnable object.
<----- OK