# Part 1

## Introduction to Annotations

Apparently they are a form of **metadata**. What we could do is provide information about the program which isn't per se part of the program itself. When you describe an annotation, you may say where it's supposed to be applied, where is it retained.
Some annotations **don't go beyond the source code**. They're just discarded by the compiler. Or you may actually **retain annotation in a compiled code**, but don't ask Java Virtual Machine to do anything about it. Or eventually, you could have annotations that you actually **want to dynamically read at runtime** and discover what they are.
Annotations are a form of metadata.
Provide information about a program that's not part of the program itself.
Types:
1.Can be retained at different levels (source, class, runtime);
2.Applicable to different type of targets (annotation_type, constructor, field, local_variable, method, module, package, parameter, type, type_parameter_ type_use);
3.Construct your own annotations.

```java
import java.lang.annotation.ElementType;
import java.lang.annotation.Retention;
import java.lang.annotation.RetentionPolicy;
import java.lang.annotation.Target;

@Retention(RetentionPolicy.RUNTIME)
@Target(ElementType.METHOD,
        ElementType.FILED)
public @interface SommeAnnotation {}
```

## Design Annotations

Annotation can actually have various attributes (primitive, String, Class, Enum, Annotation, Anarray of any of the above).
Attribute can have **default value**, which could be a constant expression.
Attribute can be an **array of values**, including other repeatable annotations.
Repeatable annotation is allowed to be **used more than once** within a given _container_.

## Apply Annotations

Usually, annotations are just applied to where you apply them to, and that's that. But if you have a class hierarchy, you may mark annotations as Inherited. So then it will be applied to subclasses as well. Otherwise, that's just applied to the immediate type where you've specified it.

## Dynamically Discover Annotations

```java
//  All class level annotations and their types:
Stream.of(Shop.class.getAnnotations())
      .forEach(t->t);
//  Type of the first class level annotation:
Class annotationType = Shop.class.getAnnotations()[0].getAnnotationType();
//  Class level annotations of BusinessPolicy type:
BusinessPolicy[] policyAnnotations = Shop.class.getAnnotationsByType(BusinessPolicy.class);
//  Retrieve values of annotation attributes:
for (BusinessPolicy policy: policyAnnotations) {
    System.out.print(policy.name());
    System.out.print(policy.value());
    for (String country: policies.countries()) {
        System.out.print(country);
    }
}
```

## Document the Use of Annotations

Annotation can be marked with the **@Documented** annotation.

## Annotations that Validate Design

It's used to validate your design, validate the source code of your interface (class or interface).




# Part 2

## Deprecated Annotation

It allows you to designate a certain piece of code in your class as to be removed, as you're not supposed to use it anymore.
Attribute **since** indicates a version after which this code should no longer be used.
Attribute **forRemoval** indicates intent to remove it.

## Suppress Compiler Warnings

Indicate that compiler warnings should be suppressed for the annotated element.
You may choose to ignore the warning. It's just a warning. The compiler will still compile the code, but it will give you that warning anyway.
Suppressing compiler warnings could be dangerous because you may compile with suppressions, and then you would not be any wiser that you're doing something wrong in your code that may backfire later.

## Var-args and Heap Pollution

Now, this problem relates to what you've seen on a previous page, this unchecked warning. It's called a heap pollution, and it can occur-- actually, on a previous page there was a heap pollution as well. But it can occur in another circumstance when you use var-args.

```java
public class Some {
    @SafeVarargs
    public final void some(List<String>... values) { //  It accepts an array of lists of strings. Because of the triple dot, it means
                                                      //  you are dealing here with a var-arg, and var-arg, essentially, is an array.
        // ...
    }
}
```

We can circumvent it and we can place in a heap something that is not really matching the type that the variable seems to imply that we're using.
Incorrect use of var-args with generics can lead to **heap pollution**.
Annotation **@SafeVarargs** suppresses heap-pollution warning when using var-args.