# Part 1

## Overload Methods

Two or more methods, within the same class, that have **identical names**.
Must have a **different number** or **types** or **order of params**.
The purpose of method overloading is to make it more convenient for the invoker to coal methods. It kind of provide the degree of **flexibility** on how the parameters are passed.

## Variable Number of Arguments

Or **vararg**.
Accept an array elements.

```java
public void setBlaBla(double... values) {
    // ...
}
```

## Define Constructors

Special method that initializes the object.
Is invoked using the **new** operator.
If you want to have the constructor with no parameters and the constructor with parameters, you actually have to write both.

## Reuse Constructor

```java
public class Product {
    // ...
    public Product(String name, double price) {
        this(name); // There is
        // ...
    }
    public Product(String name) {
        // ...
    }
}
```

If this constructor with two parameters wants to call another constructor with one parameter, it must do it first, before any other code.

## Define Encapsulation

To acces avariables or methods with the _private_ access modifier from other classes, you may provide methods with less restrictive access modifier.

```java
public class Product {
    // ...
    private BigDecimal price;

    public void setPrice(BigDecimal price) {
        this.price = price;
        calculateTax();
    }
    private void calculateTax() {
        // ...
    }
}
```


# Part 2

## Define Immutability

Instance variables are **initialized immediately** or **via constructors**.
**What is the reason for immutable design?** There is something about immutability that you might find really beneficial when it comes to multi-threaded programming. The situation when you have an object which can be concurrently accessed, but multiple different threads-- it's shared between different threads. And in this case, if the object is read-only, different threads are perfectly safe in terms of accessing that shared memory. They can't break it. They can't corrupt it because the memory is read-only. It's immutable.

## Constants and Immutability

**Instance final variables** must be either initialized immediately or using **instance initialiser** or **all constructor**.
**Instance initializer** is executed every time you create an instance of that class.

```java
public class Product {
    private static int maxId = 0;
    // ...
    { id = ++maxId; } // Instance initializer
    public Product() {
        //...
    }
}
```

## Enumerations

Is a collection of fixed set of instances.

```java
import static Condition.*;
```

## Java Memory Allocation

is the memory contexts:
1. **stack**: is a context of a thread storing local variables that you describe within your methods (contains primitives and object references);
Each thread has its own stack.
2. **heap**: is shared memory area which is accessible from different threads, from different thread contexts, from different methods-- they can all observe the same heap (contains all remaining code).



# Part 3

## Parameter Passing

Every parameter in a method-- which is an object-- is basically expecting to have a copy of a reference, whatever you're passing to it.
(stack: p1=0x10db82ae, p2=0x10db82ae | heap: 0x10db82ae={id=0, name=null, price=0}})

## Java Memory Cleanup

Object remain in the heap, so long as they are still referenced.
The object in a heap will lose all the references pointing to it. Well in this case, this object will be marked as eligible for garbage collection.