# Part 1

## Introduction to Java Collection API

Collection API presents a number of classes that manipulate groups of objects (collections).
Collection API provides much more flexible automation.

## Java Collection API Interfaces and Implementation Classes

The interfaces and implementation classes of a Collection API allocated in the Java Util package.
The top most interface for Collection API is this interface called **Iterable**.

```java
/*
*Iterable               - interfaces
*    Collection             - interfaces
*        List                   - interfaces
*            ArrayList              - class
*        Set                - interfaces
*            HashSet            - class
*            SortedSet          - interfaces
*                TreeSet              - class
*        Deque              - interfaces
*            ArrayDeque         - class
*Map                    - interfaces
*    HashMap                - class
*/ 
```

Interfaces:
Iterable<T> is a top-level interface that allows any collection to be used in a forEach loop.
Collection<E> describes generic collection capabilities, such as adding and removing elements.
List<E> describes a list of elements indexed by int.
Set<E> describes a set of unique elements.
SortedSet<E> to add ordering ability.
Deque<E> describes a double-ended queue, providing First-in-First-Out (FIFO) and Last-In-Last-Out (LIFO) behaviors.
Map<K,V> contains a Set of unique keys and a Collection of values.

Classes:
ArrayList<E> implements List interface.
HashSet<E> implements Set interface and TreeSet<E> implements SortedSet.
ArrayDeque<E> implements Deque interface.
HashMap<K,V> implements Map interface.


## Create List Object

**java.util.ArrayList** - So if you create ArrayList and you don't specify the size, how many elements, it will just keep expanding as you add in content. But by default internally, it sort of pre-creates the storage for future elements to be placed into that ArrayList of 10 items.
Arrays.asList() - create a fixed-sized List.
List.of() - create a read-only instance of List.
You cannot remove elements from read-only list or add elements to read-only list. But if objects you're storing inside the read-only list are themselves mutable, then you can still modify these objects.

## Manage List Contents

```java
List<Product> menu = new ArrayList<>(2);
```

But why am I not actually using ArrayList on left hand side? Why is that? Well, I can. But maybe I'll change my mind about the exact type of list I would like to use. Because the ArrayList is not the only class that implements the list. There are some intricate variances and you may wish to use ArrayList on one occasion and maybe some other implementation on another occasion. We'll actually see later in this lesson what are the other variants here.
**The collections are always of objects**.
**I can't use a primitive itself in a List because it use Generics**.
methode **.add()** doesn't change the position, put it in the requested position and push what was in place.
methode **.set()** update the value.
methode **.remove()** you can remove an element by saying which element that is. So if you're saying remove element p2, what will happen is that the algorithm will search for the first occurrence of the element in here that refers to the p2 object. This remove the row.
methode **.contains()** search the value and return the position.
methode **.indexOf()** You can also identify which index the element is present.
methode **.get(index)** take the value.
But what if we're trying **to jump the position**? Well, that's _not going to work_.



# Part 2

## Create Set Object

**java.util.HashSet**
No-arg constructor creating a set of initial capacity of 16 elements.
**Load factor** (default is 0.75) is a measure of how full the hash table is allowed to get before its capacity is automatically increased.
**To improve the uniqueness** - all elements, all objects that are added to the set with certain similar hash codes are in one _bucket_.

## Manage Set Contents

methode **.add()** return a boolean, if true (the element doesn't yet exist in the list) - put it in the last position.
methode **.remove()** you can remove an element by saying which element that is.
methode **.contains()** search the value and return the position.


## Create Deque Object

**java.util.ArrayDeque** is an implementation of that interface and allows us to create this double ended kind of queue, where we could add and remove things from top or bottom of a queue.
No-arg constructor creating a set of initial capacity of 16 elements.

## Manage Deque Contents

methode **.offerFirst(<object>)** put it in the first position. If you try it again, the object in the first position shift to the second position.
methode **.pollFirst()** get the first element from the top(head) of the Deque and remove it. And the second element becomes the first.
methode **.peekFirst()** get the first element from the top of the Deque and don't remove it.
methode **.offerLast()** put an element in the last position.
methode **.pollLast()** get the first element from the bottom(tail) of the Deque and remove it.
methode **.peekLast()** get the last element from the bottom of the Deque and don't remove it.


## Create HashMap Object

**java.util.HashMap** combination of two collections: first column = keys, second column = value.
No-arg constructor creating a set of initial capacity of 16 elements.
Load factor default is 0.75.
methode **.of()** - read-only hashmap.

## Manage HashMap Contents

methode **.put(<key>, <value>)** - add, or update if the key is the same, an element in the hashmap.
methode **.remove(<key>)** - remove an element.
methode **.containsKey(<key>)** - return a boolean.
methode **.containsValue(<value>)** - return a boolean.
methode **.get(<key>)** - return the _value_ of this element.


## Iterate through Collections

Collections implement Iterable interface allowing them to be used in a forEach loop.

```java
List<Product> menu = new ArrayList<>();
menu.add(new Food("Cake"));
menu.add(new Drink("Tea"));
for (Product product : menu) {
    //  use product object
}

//  less automated alternative:
Iterator<Product> iter = menu.iterator();
while (iter.hasNext()) {    //  checks if the next element exists or not
    Product product = iter.next();  //  allows you to retrieve next element and you keep iterating.
    //  use product object
    iter.remove();  //  You could also remove values using the iterator.
}
```

```java
Map<Product, Integer> items = new HashMap<>();
Set<Product> keys = items.keySet();
Collection<Integer> values = items.values();
//  And then for every key in the map, which is the map of products, using products as keys, you could get the actual quantity.
for (Product product : keys) {
    Integer quantity = items.get(product);
    //  use product and quantity object
}
//  if you want to compute something like a total, you don't really need the keys in this case, you can just get the values instead and iterate for the collection of values.
for (Integer quantity : values) {
    //  use quantity object
}
```


# Part 3

## Other Collection Behaviors

Convert collection to an array using **toArray** method.

```java
List<Product> menu = new ArrayList<>();
Product[] array = new Product[2];
array = menu.toArray(array);
```

Remove elements from collection based on a condition.

```java
menu.removeIf(new LongProductsNames());
```

Implement interface Predicate<T> overriding abstract method **boolean test(T);**.

```java
public class LongProductsNames implements Predicate<Product> {
    public boolean test(Product product) {
        return product.getName().length() > 3;
    }
}
```

## Use java.util.Collections Class

This class has various behaviors that allow you to automate tasks of managing collections:
1.Filling collection with values;
2.Searching through the collection;
3.reverse - you can reverse the opposite order;
4.shuffle - if it wasn't any particular order, the shuffle method will break the order

## Acces Collections Concurrently

Colection can be corrupted if accessed concurrently from multiple threads.
If two or more concurrent execution paths (**threads**) within your program try to access the collection at the same time, they ca **corrupt it**, _if this collection is not immutable_.

## Prevent Collections Corruption

Three ways:
1.Unmodifiable (fast but read-only) - Collections.unmodifiableSet(<collection_set>);
2.Synchronized (slow and unscalable) - means that only one thread at a time will be allowed to add or update or remove contents. **Scalability problem** - because if you've got lots of threads simultaneously trying to change the contents of that collection, then your performance will gradually start to degrade (Collections.synchronizedMap(<collection_map>);).
3.Copy-on-write (fast but consumes memory) - each thread will operate on its own independent copy and CopyOnWriteArrayList class will merge these copies into a single copy.

## Legacy Collection Classes

Example: Vector/ArrayList and HashTable/HashMap
Crucial difference: These old classes are synchronized by default. And that was a problem, because synchronization costs resources.



# Quiz

Examine the following code:
Map<Integer, String> items = new HashMap<>();
items.put(Integer.valueOf(1),"Tea"); 
items.put(Integer.valueOf(2),"Cake");
Which statements are true? (Choose two)
items.put(Integer.valueOf(1),"Coffee"); will replace "Tea" with "Coffee."
items.put(Integer.valueOf(3),"Cake"); will create an additional element with a "Cake" value.
- OK

Which statements are NOT true about the Java Collection API? (Choose two)
All collections are implemented internally by using arrays.
All collections provide thread-safe operations.
- OK

Which statements are true about Deque? (Choose three)
offerFirst(T) and offerLast(T) insert elements at the head and the tail of the deque.
If the deque is empty, pool and peek operations throw an exception. --- X
Implementations of ArrayDeque will auto-expand.
- X
peekFirst(T) and peekLast(T) returns and removes the element at the head or tail of the Deque.
offerFirst(T) and offerLast(T) insert elements at the head and the tail of the deque.
Implementations of ArrayDeque will auto-expand.
- X

Examine the following code:
String[] arr = {"Tea","Cake"};
List<String> texts = Arrays.asList(arr);
Which statements are true? (Choose two)
You can replace Tea with Coffee in texts.
You can replace Tea with Coffee in arr.
- OK

Which statement is true about Set?
Add and Remove methods will return false values when attempting to add a duplicate or remove an absent element. - OK