# Part 1

## Java Primitives

**Whole numbers:**
byte - 8 bits -> -128 to 127
short - 16 bits -> -32,768 to 32,767
int - 32 bits -> -2,147,483,648 to 2,147,483,647
long - 64 bits -> -9,223,372,036,854,780,000 to 9,223,372,036,854,780,000

**Floating point numbers**
float - 32 bits -> 1.4E-45 to 3.4028235E+38
double - 64 bits -> 4.9E-324 to 1.7976931348623157E+308 

**boolean** - true or false

**Characte**
char - 16 bits (it's initialized using ') - a single character code



# Part 2

## Arithmetic Operations and Type Casting

byte->short->char->int->long->float->double
Smaller types are automatically casted (promoted) to bigger types.
Casting works like this-- you just put a new type you want to cast the value too in round brackets in front of whatever variable or expression.
When casting a bigger value to a smaller type, beware of a possible overflow.
The ++ and -- operators retain their original type of the variable.

## More Mathematical Operations

Class **java.lang.Math** provides various mathematical operations.
The function **round** = Because it helps you to appreciate exactly how Java treats arithmetics-- the internal sort of treatment of arithmetics within the language. Always rounds to a whole number.
Java mathematics are not, by default, assuming that your math is actually decimal. Remember, you can initialize your numbers as being octal, binary, hex. Yeah, they could be decimal, but they don't have to be decimal. So in this particular case, I want to get two digits after the dot, I multiply by 100. Want to get three digits after the dot, multiply by 1,000, and then divide, after you perform the rounding to the whole number, by the equal amount. So you multiply and divide by the same amount of powers of 2, powers of 8, powers of 16, powers of 10, whatever is the hex, octal decimal system you need to use.

## Binary Number Representation

All Java numeric primitives are signed.
Java presents numbers always the same, in this particular way, which is called 2's complement implementation.

## Bitwise Operators

Compare corresponding bits of two operands with bitwise operators (AND &, OR |, OR ^).
Shift bits to the left or right with bitwise operators (<<, >>, >>>)



# Part 3

## Equality, Relational and Conditional Operators

Compare values to determine the boolean result.

## Flow Control Using if/else Construct

Conditional execution of the algorithm using the **if/else** construct.

## Ternary Operator

The ternary operator is used specifically for just one reason, conditional assignment of a value.
<variable> = (<boolean expression>) ? <value one> : <value two>
Can you embed one ternary inside another? Technically, yes. Consider probably writing a proper if/else in this case because at some stage, you will get quite irreadable. So be careful about readability.

## Flow Control Using switch Construct

Switch expression must be of one of the **types**: byte, short, int, char, String, enum.
The flow is interrupted if a **break** statement is found.

## JShell

Is an interactive Read-Evaluate-Orint Loop (REPL) command-line tool.
It allows you to type Java code as kind of expressions, and they are immediately evaluated and equaled back. So this really handy because you don't have to form a class, write a main method, do all these formalities. If you just want to play with a code, see what's what, how it works, you can even break syntax a little bit by not, for example, putting semicolons at the end of lines.