# Part 1

## Extend Classes

By default extends Object().
One parent only.
The **purpose** of extending another cclass is to be able to get its code.

## Object Class

Methods: toString, equals, hashCode, clone.
wait, notify and notifyAll methods control threads.

## Reuse Parent Class Code Through Inheritance

The purpose of inheritance is to reuse generic superclass behaviors and state in subclasses.

## Instantiating Classes and Accessing Objects

```java
Object x1 = new Food();
Product x2 = new Food();
Food x3 = new Food();
```

x1 accesses code declared on the Object class level only.
x2 accesses code declared on the Object and Product class levels.
x3 accesses code declared on the Object, Product and Food class levels.

## Rules of Reference Type Casting

Specific child subclass type(Casting) or Generic parent superclass types.

## Verify Object Type Before Casting the Reference

Product parameter can reprense specify subtypes.

```java
public void order(Product p) {
    // ...
    if (p instanceof Food) {}
    if (p instanceof Drink) {}
    // ...
}

```

I can do it:

```java
order(new Food("Cake", 2.99));
order(new Drink("Tea", 1.99));
```



# Part 2

## Reference Code Within the Current or Prent Object

**this** - to refernce of the _current_ object.
**super** - to refernce of the _parent_ object.

## Define Subclass Constructors

```java
public class Product {
    public Product(String name) {// ...}
}
```

```java
public class Food {
    public Food(String name, LocalDate bestBefore) {
        super(name);
        // ...
    }
}
```

## Class and Object Initialization Summary

Class loading and initialization:
1.Object class static initialiser
2.Shop class static initialiser
3.Product class static initialiser
4.Food class static initialiser

Object instantiation:
1.Object class constructor
2.Product instance initializer
3.Product constructor
4.Food instance initializer
5.Food constructor

## Override Methods and Use Polymorphism

Must important lesson!!!
Override Methods - the children are the same method of the parent (the same signature) but with a different logic (use @Override annotation, but it's optional).

```java
public void order(Product p) {
    // ...
    if (p instanceof Food) {}
    if (p instanceof Drink) {}
    // ...
}

```

^- you don't need to do this anymore because the logic is being changed for each type of child, just:

```java
public void order(Product p) {
    BigDecimal price = p.getPrice(); // each child has your logic
}

```

**Polymorphism** = is when a method is declared in a superclass and is override in a subclass, the subclass method takes precedence whitout casting reference to a specific subclass type.
We can widen the access modifier but cannot narrow it.

## Reuse Parent Class Logic in Overwritten Method

The subclass may invoke a parent class method using the **super** reference to use parent logic.



# Part 3

## Define Abstract Classes and Methods

You immediately prevent it from being instantiated. You can no longer say, new product. You disallow that.

```java
public abstract class Product {
    public abstract void serve();
}
// new Product(); - no more possible
```

An abstract method describes the **method signature** but no method body and it can only exist in the abstract class.
And what the abstract method allows you to do is describe a behavior which you want to be generic.
Compiler insists on you overriding that method.

## Define Final Classes and Methods

This classes can not be extended.
This methods can not be overridden by subclasses.

## Override Object Class Operations: toString

For example, every time you use println, every time you print, you are actually invoking toString.

## Override Object Class Operations: equals

Equals method is used to compare objects.
== just say me if I've got a same value in a stack.
equals see the values in a heap.



# Part 4

## Override Object Class Operations: hashCode

Generates an integer which is kind of a unique identity.
If a pair of objects compared with equals method is the same-- the equals method says true, they're the same-- then they should use the same hashCode.
There is another concept in Java called secure hash, and that's used for scrambling values if you need to create a secure digital scrambled version of the value.
It isn't a secure method.

## Factory Method Pattern

Factory methods can hide the use of a specific constructor.